# ABSTRACT: Entry point for Pinto documentation

package Pinto::Manual;

#------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# VERSION

#------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1;

__END__

=pod

=for :stopwords Jeffrey Ryan Thalhammer Stratopan

=head1 NAME

Pinto::Manual - Entry point for Pinto documentation

=head1 VERSION

version 0.083

=head1 TABLE OF CONTENTS

The manual consists of the following documents

=over 4

=item L<Pinto::Manual::Introduction>

Explains the goals, terminology, and concepts in L<Pinto>.

=item L<Pinto::Manual::Installing>

Some suggestions for installing L<Pinto>.

=item L<Pinto::Manual::Tutorial>

Presents a narrative explanation of how to use L<Pinto>.

=item L<Pinto::Manual::QuickStart>

Presents a condensed summary of L<pinto> commands.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Stratopan|http://stratopan.com> is a web service built on Pinto.
Using Stratopan, you can store all your public and private Perl
modules in the cloud without having to create and manage your own
Pinto repository.  Stratopan also has facilities for creating teams of
collaborators, controlling access to your repositories, browsing your
repository contents or revision history, and visualizing your
dependency tree.

At the time of this writing, L<Stratopan|http://stratopan.com> is
still in the alpha stage.  But it definitely worth investigation.

=head1 CONTRIBUTORS

=over 4

=item *

Cory G Watson <gphat@onemogin.com>

=item *

Jakob Voss <jakob@nichtich.de>

=item *

Jeff <jeff@callahan.local>

=item *

Jeffrey Ryan Thalhammer <jeff@imaginative-software.com>

=item *

Jeffrey Thalhammer <jeff@imaginative-software.com>

=item *

Karen Etheridge <ether@cpan.org>

=item *

Michael G. Schwern <schwern@pobox.com>

=item *

Steffen Schwigon <ss5@renormalist.net>

=item *

Wolfgang Kinkeldei <wolfgang@kinkeldei.de>

=item *

Yanick Champoux <yanick@babyl.dyndns.org>

=item *

hesco <hesco@campaignfoundations.com>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Jeffrey Ryan Thalhammer <jeff@stratopan.com>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2013 by Jeffrey Ryan Thalhammer.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
